Documentation updates for event and metric triggers (#12366)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/concepts/automations.md

Automations in Prefect Cloud enable you to configure [actions](#actions) that Prefect executes automatically based on [trigger](#triggers) conditions.

> Potential triggers include the occurrence of events from changes in a flow run's state - or the absence of such events. You can event define your own custom trigger to fire based on an [event](/cloud/events/) created from a webhook or a custom event defined in Python code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Potential triggers include the occurrence of events from changes in a flow run's state - or the absence of such events. You can even define your own custom trigger to fire based on an [event](/cloud/events/) created from a webhook or a custom event defined in Python code.
```

### Triggers

> Triggers specify the conditions under which your action should be performed. The Prefect UI includes templates for many common situations, like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Triggers specify the conditions under which your action should be performed. The Prefect UI includes templates for many common conditions, like:
```

> Triggers specify the conditions under which your action should be performed. The Prefect UI includes templates for many common situations, like:

Reviewer 3: nit 
```suggestion
Triggers specify the conditions under which your action should be performed. The Prefect UI includes templates for many common situations, such as:
```

> Triggers specify the conditions under which your action should be performed. The Prefect UI includes templates for many common conditions, like:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Triggers specify the conditions under which your action should be performed. The Prefect UI includes templates for many common conditions, such as:
```

- Flow run state change

>   - Note - Flow Run Tags currently are only evaluated with `OR` criteria

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Note - Flow Run Tags currently are only evaluated with `OR` criteria
```

Reviewer 4: Note line isn't indenting - maybe just put in parentheses

## Custom triggers

> When you need a trigger that doesn't quite fit the common templates in the Automations section of the UI, you can define an automation's trigger in JSON.  With custom triggers, you have access to the full capabilities of Prefect's automation system - allowing you to react to many kinds of events and metrics changing with your workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you need a trigger that doesn't quite fit the templates in UI trigger builder, you can define a custom trigger in JSON.  With custom triggers, you have access to the full capabilities of Prefect's automation system - allowing you to react to many kinds of events and metrics in your workspace.
```

> When you need a trigger that doesn't quite fit the common templates in the Automations section of the UI, you can define an automation's trigger in JSON.  With custom triggers, you have access to the full capabilities of Prefect's automation system - allowing you to react to many kinds of events and metrics changing with your workspace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you need a trigger that doesn't quite fit the common templates in the Trigger Type drop down on the Automations page in the UI, you can define an automation's trigger in JSON by selecting a Custom Trigger Type.  With custom triggers, you have access to the full capabilities of Prefect's automation system - allowing you to react to many kinds of events and metrics changing with your workspace.
```

I also kinda feel like a picture could say 1000 words here maybe instead of my suggestion

Author: Yep totally agree.  I'll drop a pic of the UI here but I think I'll keep my original phrasing

> When you need a trigger that doesn't quite fit the common templates in the Automations section of the UI, you can define an automation's trigger in JSON.  With custom triggers, you have access to the full capabilities of Prefect's automation system with triggers that react to many kinds of events and metrics changing with your workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you need a trigger that doesn't quite fit the common templates in the Automations section of the UI, you can define an automation's trigger in JSON.  With custom triggers, you have access to the full capabilities of Prefect's automation system - allowing you to react to many kinds of events and metrics changing with your workspace.
```

> Every automation has a single trigger that, when fired, will cause all of its associated actions to run.  That single trigger may be a reactive or proactive event trigger, a trigger monitoring the value of a metric, or a composite trigger that combines several underlying triggers.

Reviewer 3: One could technically have infinite top-level triggers though right?

> Every automation has a single trigger that, when fired, will cause all of its associated actions to run.  That single trigger may be a reactive or proactive event trigger, a trigger monitoring the value of a metric, or a composite trigger that combines several underlying triggers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Each automation has a single trigger that, when fired, will cause all of its associated actions to run.  That single trigger may be a reactive or proactive event trigger, a trigger monitoring the value of a metric, or a composite trigger that combines several underlying triggers.
```

### Event triggers

> Event triggers are the most common types of trigger, and they are intended to react to the presence or absence of an event arriving on your workspace's event stream.  Event triggers are indicated with `{"type": "event"}`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Event triggers are the most common types of trigger, and they are intended to react to the presence or absence of an event happening in your workspace.  Event triggers are indicated with `{"type": "event"}`.
```

### Evaluation strategy

> All of the previous examples were designed around a reactive `posture` - that is, count up events toward the `threshold` until it is met, then execute actions. To respond to the absence of events, use a proactive `posture`. A proactive trigger will fire when its `threshold` has _not_ been met by the end of the window of time defined by `within`. Proactive triggers must have a `within` of at least 10 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of the previous examples were designed around a reactive `posture` - that is, count up events toward the `threshold` until it is met, then execute actions. To respond to the absence of events, use a proactive `posture`. A proactive trigger will fire when its `threshold` has _not_ been met by the end of the window of time defined by `within`. Proactive triggers must have a `within` value of at least 10 seconds.
```

}
```

### Metric triggers

Metric triggers (`{"type": "metric"}`) fire when the value of a metric in your workspace crosses a threshold you've defined.  For example, you can trigger an automation when the success rate of flows in your workspace drops below 95% over the course of an hour.

> Prefect's metrics are all derived by examining your workspace's event stream, and if applicable, use the `occurred` times of those events as the basis for their calculations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prefect's metrics are all derived by examining your workspace's events, and if applicable, use the `occurred` times of those events as the basis for their calculations.
```

Prefect defines three metrics today:

* **Successes** (`{"name": "successes"}`), defined as the number of flow runs that went `Pending` and then the latest state we saw was not a failure (`Failed` or `Crashed`).  This metric accounts for retries if the ultimate state was successful.

> * **Duration** (`{"name": "duration"}`), defined as the _length of time_ that a flow remains in a `Running` state before transitioning to a terminal state like `Completed`, `Failed`, or `Crashed`.  Because this time is derived in terms of flow run state change events, it may be greater than the runtime of your function.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* **Duration** (`{"name": "duration"}`), defined as the _length of time_ that a flow remains in a `Running` state before transitioning to a terminal state such as `Completed`, `Failed`, or `Crashed`.  Because this time is derived in terms of flow run state change events, it may be greater than the runtime of your function.
```

* **Lateness** (`{"name": "lateness"}`), defined as the _length of time_ that a `Scheduled` flow remains in a `Late` state before transitioning to a `Running` and/or `Crashed` state.  Only flow runs that the system marks `Late` are included.

The schema of a metric trigger is as follows:

> | Name               | Type               | Supports trailing wildcards | Description |

Author: Looks like my table got a little scrambled on me, do you all have any VSCode extension/config recommendations for Markdown tables?

Author: I went with the "Markdown All in One" package and it seems great

For example, to fire when flow runs tagged `production` in your workspace are failing at a rate of 10% or worse for the last hour (in other words, your success rate is below 90%), create this trigger:

```json
{
  "type": "metric",
  "match": {
    "prefect.resource.id": "prefect.flow-run.*"
  },
  "match_related": {
    "prefect.resource.id": "prefect.tag.production",
    "prefect.resource.role": "tag"
  },
  "metric": {
    "name": "successes",
    "threshold": 0.9,
    "operator": "<",
    "range": 3600,
    "firing_for": 0
  }
}
```

To detect when the average lateness of your Kubernetes workloads (running on a work pool named `kubernetes`) in the last day exceeds 5 minutes late, and that number hasn't gotten better for the last 10 minutes, use a trigger like this:

```json
{
  "type": "metric",
  "match": {
    "prefect.resource.id": "prefect.flow-run.*"
  },
  "match_related": {
    "prefect.resource.id": "prefect.work-pool.kubernetes",
    "prefect.resource.role": "work-pool"
  },
  "metric": {
    "name": "lateness",
    "threshold": 300,
    "operator": ">",
    "range": 86400,
    "firing_for": 600
  }
}
```

### Composite triggers

> [more information coming soon]

Author: @serinamarie here's the placeholder I dropped for composite triggers

Reviewer 3: ❤️ Cool, would it make sense for folks to make a branch into this one, or update this branch directly?

Author: Either way, I still have a few things to tidy up tomorrow so feel free to push here in the meantime
